federalist number 12 the utility of the
union in respect to revenue
from the new york packet tuesday
november 27th
1787 hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
the effects of union upon the commercial
prosperity of the states
have been sufficiently delineated its
tendency to promote the interests of
revenue
will be the subject of our present
inquiry
the prosperity of commerce is now
perceived and acknowledged
by all enlightened statesmen to be the
most useful as well as the most
productive source of national wealth
and has accordingly become a primary
object of their political cares
by multiplying the means of
gratification by promoting the
introduction
and circulation of the precious metals
those darling objects of human avarice
and enterprise
it serves to vivify and invigorate the
channels of industry
and to make them flow with greater
activity and copiousness
the assiduous merchant the laboring
husbandman the active mechanic
and the industrious manufacturer all
orders of men
look forward with eager expectation and
growing alacrity to this pleasing reward
for their toils
the often agitated question between
agriculture and commerce has
from indubitable experience received a
decision which has silenced the rival
ship that once
existed between them and has proved to
the satisfaction of their friends
that their interests are intimately
blended and interwoven
it has been found in various countries
that in proportion as commerce has
flourished
land has risen in value and how could it
have happened otherwise
could that which procures a free event
for the products of the earth which
furnishes new incitements to the
cultivation of land which is the most
powerful instrument in increasing the
quantity of money in a state
could that in fine which is the faithful
handmaid of labor and industry in every
shape
failed to augment that article which is
the prolific parent of far the greatest
part of the objects upon which they are
exerted
it is astonishing that so simple a truth
should ever have had an adversary
and it is one among a multitude of
proofs how apt to spirit of ill-informed
jealousy or of too great abstraction
and refinement is to lead men astray
from the plainest truths of reason and
conviction
the ability of a country to pay taxes
must always be proportioned
in a great degree to the quantity of
money in circulation and to the solarity
with which it circulates
commerce contributing to both these
objects must of necessity render the
payment of taxes easier and facilitate
the requisite supplies to the treasury
the hereditary dominions of the emperor
of germany contain a great extent of
fertile cultivated and populous
territory a large proportion of which is
situated in mild and luxuriant climates
in some parts of this territory are to
be found the best gold and silver mines
in europe
and yet from the want of the fostering
influence of commerce
that monarch can boast but slender
revenues he has several times been
compelled to owe obligations to the
pecuniary successors of other nations
for the preservation of his essential
interests
and is unable upon the strength of his
own resources to sustain a long or
continued war
but it is not in this aspect of the
subject alone that union will be seen to
conduce to the purpose of revenue
there are other points of view in which
its influence will appear more immediate
and decisive
it is evident from the state of the
country from the habits of the people
from the experience we have had on the
point itself that it is impracticable to
raise any very considerable sums by
direct taxation
tax laws have in vain been multiplied
new methods to enforce the collection
have in vain been tried
the public expectation has been
uniformly disappointed
and the treasuries of the states have
remained empty the popular system of
administration inherent in the nature of
popular government coinciding with the
real scarcity of money incident to a
languid and mutilated state of trade
has hitherto defeated every experiment
for extensive collections
and has at length taught the different
legislatures the folly of attempting
them
no person acquainted with what happens
in other countries will be surprised at
this circumstance
in so opulent a nation as that of
britain where direct taxes from superior
wealth
must be much more tolerable and from the
vigor of the government
much more practicable than in america
far the greatest part of the national
revenue is derived from taxes of the
indirect kind
from imposts and from excises duties on
imported articles form a large branch of
this latter description
in america it is evident that we must a
long time depend for the means of
revenue chiefly on such duties
in most parts of it excises must be
confined within a narrow compass
the genius of the people will ill-brook
the inquisitive and peremptory spirit of
excise laws
the pockets of the farmers on the other
hand will reluctantly yield but scanty
supplies
in the unwelcome shape of impositions on
their houses and lands
and personal property is too precarious
and invisible of fun to be laid hold of
in any other way
than by the imperceptible agency of
taxes on consumption
if these remarks have any foundation
that state of things which will best
enable us to improve and extend so
valuable resource must be best adapted
to our political welfare
and it cannot admit of a serious doubt
that this state of things must rest
on the basis of a general union as far
as this would be conducive to
the interests of commerce so far it must
tend to the extension of the revenue to
be drawn from that source
as far as it would contribute to
rendering regulations for the collection
of the duties more simple and
efficacious
so far it must serve to answer the
purpose of making the same rate of
duties more productive
and of putting it into the power of the
government to increase the rate without
prejudice to trade
the relative situation of these states
the number of rivers with which they are
intersected
and of bays that wash their shores the
facility of communication in every
direction
the affinity of language and manners the
familiar habits of intercourse
all these are circumstances that would
conspire to render and elicit trade
between them
a matter of little difficulty and would
ensure frequent evasions of the
commercial regulations of each other
the separate states or confederacies
would be necessitated by mutual jealousy
to avoid the temptations to that kind of
trade by the lowness of their duties
the temper of our governments for a long
time to come would not permit those
rigorous precautions by which the
european nations guard the avenues into
their respective countries
as well by land as by water and which
even there
are found insufficient obstacles to the
adventurous stratagems of avarice
in france there is an army of patrols as
they are called
constantly employed to secure their
fiscal regulations against the inroads
of the dealers in contraband trade
mr necker computes the number of these
patrols at upwards of twenty thousand
this shows the immense difficulty in
preventing that species of traffic
where there is an inland communication
and places in a strong light the
disadvantages with which the collection
of duties in this country would be
encumbered if by disunion the state
should be placed in a situation with
respect to each other resembling that of
france with respect to her neighbors
the arbitrary and vexatious powers with
which the patrols are necessarily armed
would be intolerable in a free country
if on the contrary there be but one
government pervading all the states
there will be as to the provincial part
of our commerce but one side to guard
the atlantic coast vessels arriving
directly from foreign countries laden
with valuable cargos would rarely choose
to hazard themselves to the complicated
and critical
perils which would attend attempts to
unlaid prior to their coming into port
they would have to dread both the
dangers of the coast and of detection
as well after as before their arrival at
the places of their final destination
an ordinary degree of vigilance would be
competent to the prevention of any
material infractions upon the rights of
the revenue
a few armed vessels judiciously
stationed at the entrance of our ports
might at a small expense be made useful
sentinels of the laws
and the government having the same
interest to provide against violations
everywhere
the cooperation of its measures in each
state would have a powerful tendency to
render them effectual
here also we should preserve by union an
advantage which
nature holds out to us and which would
be relinquished by separation
the united states lie at a general
distance from europe and at a
considerable distance from all other
places with which they would have
extensive connections of foreign trade
the passage from them to us in a few
hours or in a single night as between
the coasts of france and britain
and of other neighboring nations would
be impracticable
this is a prodigious security against a
direct contraband with foreign countries
but a circuit is contraband to one state
through the medium of another would be
both easy and safe
the difference between a direct
importation from abroad and an indirect
importation through the channel of a
neighboring state
in small parcels according to time and
opportunity with the additional
facilities of inland communication must
be palpable to every man of discernment
it is therefore evident that one
national government would be able at
much less expense
to extend the duties on imports beyond
comparison further than would be
practicable to the state separately
or to any partial confederacies hitherto
i believe it may be asserted
that these duties have not upon an
average exceeded in any state three
percent
in france they are esteemed to be about
15 and in britain they exceed this
proportion
if my memory be right they amount to 20
percent
there seems to be nothing to hinder
they're being increased in this country
to at least treble their present amount
the single article of ardent spirits
under federal regulation might be made
to furnish a considerable revenue
upon a ratio to the importation into
this state the whole quantity imported
into the united states may be estimated
at four millions of gallons
which at a shilling per gallon would
produce two hundred thousand pounds
that article would well bear this rate
of duty and if it should tend to
diminish the consumption of it
such an effect would be equally
favorable to the agriculture to the
economy to the morals and to the health
of the society
there is perhaps nothing so much a
subject of national extravagance as
these spirits
what will be the consequence if we are
not able to avail ourselves of the
resource in question in its full extent
a nation cannot long exist without
revenues destitute of this essential
support
it must resign its independence and sink
into the degraded condition of a
province
this is an extremity to which no
government will of choice exceed
revenue therefore must be had at all
events
in this country if the principal part be
not drawn from commerce
it must fall with oppressive weight upon
land it has been already intimated that
excises
in their true signification are too
little in unison with the feelings of
the people to admit of great use being
made of that mode of taxation
nor indeed in the states where almost
the sole employment is agriculture
are the objects proper for excise
sufficiently numerous to permit very
ample collections in that way
personal estate as has been more
remarked from the difficulty in tracing
it cannot be subjected to large
contributions by any other means than by
taxes on consumption
in populous cities it may be enough the
subject of conjecture to occasion the
oppression of individuals without much
aggregate benefit to the state
but beyond these circles it must in
great measure
escape the eye and the hand of the tax
gatherer as the necessities of the state
nevertheless must be satisfied in some
mode or other
the defect of other resources must throw
the principal weight of public burdens
on the possessors of land and as on the
other hand the wants of the government
can never obtain an adequate supply
unless all the sources of revenue are
open to its demands
the finances of the community under such
embarrassments cannot be put into a
situation consistent with its
respectability or its security
thus we shall not even have the
consolations of a full treasury to atone
for the oppression
of that valuable class of citizens who
are employed in the cultivation of the
soil
but public and private distress will
keep pace with each other in gloomy
concert
and unite in deploring the infatuation
of those councils which
led to disunion publius